The Watchtower comment for today makes a very bold statement when it says
Satan uses movies and television shows to spread his way of thinking.
And so that thought alone should cause anyone that loves Jehovah to think twice before we turn on a television
or a monitor.
Concerning this method that Satan uses to spread his thinking, the Watchtower comment further says,
he understands that storytelling does much more than entertain us.
It teaches us how to think, feel, and act.
So when choosing our entertainment, we need to remember that Satan's storytelling
has had a detrimental effect upon people for generations.
If you look at Isaiah 55 and verse 7,
55 and verse 7, the results can be seen. It says, let the wicked man leave his way and the evil man
his thoughts. So the person that is taught by Satan will have his thinking corrupted
and in time will end up as an evil and wicked individual.
Now, verses 8 and 9 shows us that imperfect thinking is separate from Jehovah God's thinking.
Now, notice what it says.
And verse 8, for my thoughts are not your thoughts and your ways are not my ways,
declares Jehovah. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than yours
and my thoughts than your thoughts. So while the verse is talking about an evil and wicked
individual, somewhere along the way, that individual was an imperfect individual only.
And so something happened to push them in the evil and the wicked category.
Well, it was being taught by Satan the devil. That's what happened.
So today, we're all imperfect individuals. So how can we maintain
Jehovah's thinking so that we don't get pushed in the category of evil and wicked?
Well, it is the fact that Jehovah also uses storytelling to help us to adapt our thinking to
Jehovah's thinking. In fact, the Bible is filled with the experiences of individuals both good
and bad. The Bible gives us many illustrations and many stories that touch the heart
that helps us to understand timeless principles and Bible laws that will help us in our decision
process so that our ways can become like Jehovah's ways. Let's take an example.
Now, throughout the Bible, it really highlights Jehovah's forgiving nature.
And let's talk about that. Let's go to Exodus, first of all, Exodus 34. And we'll read verse 7.
Now, remember, we're being taught Jehovah's way of forgiveness. So it says this,
showing loyal love to thousands, pardoning error and transgression and sin. Well,
that's Jehovah's forgiving nature. And then if you turn to Isaiah, chapter 1 and verse 18,
notice how he paints a picture about this for us. Isaiah 1 and verse 18. He says,
come now and let us set matter straight between us, says Jehovah. Though your sins are like scarlet,
they will be made as white as snow. Though they are as red as crimson cloth, they will become
like wool. And so there again, identifying this is Jehovah's way. Now, to touch our heart and
really go to the core of the matter, he has a story told. And in fact, Jesus did that. It's found in
Luke chapter 15 about the prodigal or the lost son. Chapter 15, verse 11, now we're not going to
read it, but I'll start to tell the story in just a few sentences. If you look at verse 11,
there was a man that had two sons. And in verse 12, the younger son took his inheritance,
verse 13, he traveled to a distant country and squandered his inheritance. And then 15 and 16,
he became destitute. 17, he finally came to his senses. And returned to his father. And
verse 20 shows that his father caught sight of him and was moved with pity. And he ran and embraced
him and tenderly kissed him. Now, what are some of the lessons that Jehovah's teaching us by means
of this story? Well, first of all, Jehovah yearns to extend forgiveness. It's his forgiving nature.
And just like that father, we recognize that sinners may waste resources given them.
We never lose hope that a sinner will return and will give a warm reception when they do return to
Jehovah God. Centres can be restored completely and regain a place in the family of Jehovah.
And finally, we learn that sinners may have to hit rock bottom before they return to their senses.
Don't you agree? These are valuable lessons that helps us to understand
Jehovah's thinking and to adapt our imperfect thinking to his. Now, a part of using this as an
illustration, the the Neuro translation takes a little over 500 words to give this story.
But less than 10 are used to describe the wrongdoing of the prodigal son. If you look in verse 13,
it says he was living a debauched life. And then in verse 30, a few more details when it says he
squandered his belongings with prostitutes. So here's an example of a story that contains
some wrongdoing, but in no way does it spotlight it? Does it glorify it or make it attractive?
Rather, it draws us closer to Jehovah God, helping us to understand his forgiving nature.
That's just why the story was written. Now, we can only imagine how Satan would
twist the storyline of the prodigal son. Would he portray the father as restrictive and intolerant?
Would he show the rebellious son's home, home life as oppressive and stifles his independence?
Would he insert some disrespectful or obscene language in the script?
How much time do you imagine that he would devote to the immoral aspects of the story?
And when the son returns home, would he be repentant? Or would the father be portrayed as
mellowing and becoming tolerant? Might the son even return home with one of the women that he
was with? You see, with Satan's stories, when we read between the lines, there's always
filth and untruth. The story content is a repeating plot, a plot of rebellion of violence and
immorality. See, it's the same basic story told over and over again with different characters.
But with Jehovah's stories, when we read it, we discover something every time. In fact,
when we meditatively read between the lines, the story blossoms, doesn't it? It seems no matter how
often we read the story, we learn something about Jehovah that we can adapt to our own thinking.
So in making decisions regarding entertainment, we need to reason on the matter.
See, who is teaching me? Will the entertainment refresh me and accomplish something good for me?
Or is it a chance that it will undermine my faith in Jehovah God? If in doubt, wouldn't it be wise
to simply refrain? So while in this system, we need to be careful about our entertainment choices.
Let's be taught by Jehovah so we can think and feel and reason on matters as he does
as we look forward to the time when the only option available to us will be safe and wholesome
in entertainment.